Before we begin using the boolean tool I think what I'd like to do is do a little cleanup and name our
objects.
It'll help as we go through the process of using our boolean modifier.
So I'm going to select the head here and over here.
Here it's selected.
I'll just double click here and let's call that head.
This one here will be our tour so let's go ahead and call it that.
No I misspelled it.
Let's try that again.
Here we go.
This will call the hits and we go.
And this one I guess we call the crotch.
Let's do that.
OK.
So now that we know what those are.
Let's duplicate this object right here by pressing shift D and then I'll press enter.
And now let's just scale this out in the X. I'm just gonna hit X and X and drag the mouse out and let's
extend it out B on this point here.
Now this is just a temporary object we're going to delete it once we're done using this.
But what I wanted was to be able to make this cut so it fits precisely with that center of cylinder.
So let's select the hips now.
Right here and let's go to our modifiers tab and we'll click on Add modifier and we want to select the
boolean modifier.
Now we need to make sure our operation is set to difference.
And then over here under object we can select a little eyedropper right here and come over here and
just click on that object that we want to do the cutting.
Now we can come over here and just click apply and then I'll select that cutter object and just move
it away.
And now you can see we've got that same cut in the hips object.
All right.
And because I got that edge between the two edges of the cylinder if we selected and tab and edit mode
you can see we don't have any real problems here we've got all quads.
We've got four sided polygons all the way through here which is which is good.
All right.
So now we can just take this and delete it.
I'll just hit delete.
And there we go.
Now let's take a look at the legs and to do the legs as well.
I think we can just use this object.
So what let's do is let's go back to that front view and what I'm going to do is just press shift D
and X and then I'm a drag over and this will be our legs and then I want to scale this out so I'll press
X and X and scale it out in the X just a bit and move it over just a little like this and then X and
X again we get it about the right width like that.
All right and we go So now what we need to do is extrude a few of the faces down here at the bottom
of the cylinder down to create the leg.
Let me go back to that other image that we had out here.
This one here.
Let's open this up and we can kind of see what's happening with the legs it's really kind of a cylinder
here.
It's being extended down from the bottom.
So if we say select the cylinder tab into edit mode hit the three key to go to base mode.
Now we can begin to select some of these bases to extrude down so maybe this one this one this one this
one yeah maybe this one to something like this.
We could try this however no let me bring I mean d select down let's try this here.
Let's try this now.
If we go to that front view we can see that it's got a bit of an overlap.
It kind of extruded down and then extends out back toward the center of the character here.
So we just need to keep that in mind as we're creating this.
But the first thing we should do I think is just extrude straight down.
So here in the side view I'm going to hit the E key and then I'm going to click and then I'm just going
to grab in the z axis and drag straight down like this and then we go.
Now we can also do is come back here and select this base right here.
Let's go back to that side view with the three key and I just want to click and drag in the y until
this is black.
You see how this area right here just needs to be flat.
Now I could take these bases here and flatten them in the y by pressing x and y and pushing in toward
the center of the selection right there.
Now let's go back and see how we did.
Yeah.
That's pretty flat there.
Okay.
That worked out pretty good so let's now go down here and select these and we can do the same thing.
So let's go select these go back to that side view with three key and now instead of in the y axis let's
do it in the z axis let's press s and z and just move the mouse straight down toward the center of that
selection and that just kind of flattens them all up like that.
All right.
Now we'll just grab it in the z axis and drag it down to the grid right there.
Now before we do anything else let's go over and take a look at this.
Remember we have to deal with this too.
So what we should probably do is select these faces here and extrude them out.
But if we do we'll be right flush against that cylinder and I don't think we want that.
We want just a little bit of room there.
I mean go to the wireframe now you can see there's just a little bit of room there.
So we really need to add an edge before we extrude toward the center of the character to do that.
Let me go back to this view and on press Z and solid so you can see what we're doing here and what I'm
going to do is press control are and that turns on the loop cut tool and here it is if I then click
one time I can then drag this up and down here and if I move toward one edge you can see it kind of
conforms to that edge and if I move it toward the other edge it kind of conforms to that edge but it
isn't quite perfect.
What we can do is now hit the E key and it will change between conforming to one edge you can see now
no matter where I move it it stays conformed to this edge on the top or I can hit the f key now and
flip it.
Now you can see the edge is staying conformed to the bottom edge no matter where I put it.
So I'm going to hit the f key and conform it to this edge up here and then I'm going to click right
about here to drop the edge right there so once again that's just control are for the loop cut tool
you click and then you can hit the E key and flip between the two edges with the FCC.
All right.
So now that I've got this I'm going to go to face mode with the three key select these bases right in
here and then let's go back to that front view and let's hit e and pull out just a little bit like this
and we go.
All right let's take a look at what we've done here.
Yeah I think that's actually pretty good yeah.
That kind of conforms to that pretty well all right.
So we've done that.
The next thing we need to do is probably the feet.
So let's select the leg and tab back into edit mode.
Let's once again press control ah and go into the loop cut tool will click will press E then we'll press
F and flip it so it conforms to that bottom edge.
And we'll get it right about here.
Let's say let's try that if the three key select these two bases out front and then let's extrude them
out for the feet so I'll hit e and pull them straight out like that.
That's pretty good in terms of the length of the foot there I think.
But I didn't do very well with the height of the foot.
Now did I.
Looks like this is thicker than this.
So what can we do for that.
I think we could switch to edge mode with the two key alt click this edge right here so it goes all
the way around like that then what we should do is select these edges out here so I'll press Alt shift
click that edge and let's just go ahead and select these edges as well.
Oh and this one right in here.
Here we go.
Now we should be able just to click and drag and make these a little bit taller.
Let's see maybe something like this let's give this a try.
I may need to bring that up even more now actually let's select it and instead of just selecting those
edges again what I'm gonna do is go to the three key to the side view go to wireframe I'm to tab into
edit mode and this time I'm going to press the one key to go to vertex mode.
Now if I come up here to the select blocks I can click right here and click and drag.
Now I've got all those points selected and I can now move them up and down just like I did before and
this time I want to bring it up quite a bit like that.
There we go.
All right.
So now we have a leg done and we've cut into the hip piece there.
I think in the next video what we should do is begin working on the arms.